                             podlators Thanks

Thanks to all of the following people for helping with the development of
these modules.

Tom Christiansen, for writing the original Pod::Text and pod2man.  These
modules are based very heavily on those, particularly the termcap handling
and pretty much all of Pod::Man.

Brad Appleton, for writing Pod::Parser, which made writing Pod::Text the
work of a single Saturday and Pod::Man the work of another single
Saturday, and for finding lots of bugs in the first try.

Sean Burke, for writing up a detailed specification of the POD language
that cleaned up a lot of edge cases and for his patience in explaining and
defending the decisions of that specification.  Thanks also for writing
detailed instructions on how to parse L<> codes that I just implemented
nearly verbatim for Pod::ParseLink.  Sean also contributed the initial
port of Pod::Man to Pod::Simple, so much of the current Pod::Man code is
heavily based on his work.

Gurusamy Sarathy, for pointing out the need for a pod2text() compatibility
interface for older applications, and for being willing to roll this code
into the Perl core distribution.

Larry Virden, for feedback on the section on writing a manual page in
pod2roff and lots of good suggestions for improving it.

Michael Schwern, for pointing out that pod2text() needs to be exported for
backwards compatibility and for pointing out a bug in the collapsing of
adjacent L</foo> links in Pod::Man.

Marek Rochal, for pointing out a bug in handling of Z<> in Pod::Man, that
even periods preceded by font escapes need protection at the beginning of
lines from *roff, and that the handling of =item text with embedded
newlines was buggy in a previous version of Pod::Man.  Thanks also for
finding a bug with C<> in headings confusing nroff.

Tim Jenness, for providing the remaining ISO 8859-1 escapes for Pod::Text.
Volunteers to implement the same for Pod::Man are welcome.

Johan Vromans, for pointing out a bug in the filename parsing in Pod::Man
and help with various packaging problems.

Abigail, for better error handling code for unknown command paragraphs.

Zack Weinberg, for suggesting the right *roff magic to prevent blank lines
between consecutive =item tags in lists and for explaining \fP and how to
prevent escapes like C<> from breaking the font in headings.

Nicholas Clark, for the original patch to pod2man to allow it to process
multiple files with one invocation and for the analysis of problems with F
register handling with roffitall.

Joe Smith, for Pod::Text::Overstrike.

Robin Barker, for finding problems with multiline =head* headings and
input filenames containing spaces.

Brendan O'Dea and Robin Barker (again!), for finding problems with
Pod::Man guesswork and function and manual page references that contained
words in all caps and proposing fixes.

Barrie Slaymaker, for the initial version of the heuristics in Pod::Man
and Pod::Text used to decide whether to add quotes around the argument of
C<>.

Colin Watson, for finally pointing me in the right direction to find the
problem with excessive double-quoting of text in =item's on some platforms
and see how to fix it, finding a problem with Pod::Man's output of section
headings for troff, and the preamble change to define the IX macro to an
empty macro when indexing is not requested.

Jarkko Hietaniemi, for the original language for pod2man.PL explaining the
COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE section, the modifications to the test suite needed
to run it as part of Perl's core tests, and testing and bug reports for
OS/390 and EBCDIC.

Peter Prymmer, for pointing out the error reporting in Pod::Text and
Pod::Man didn't include enough information to find the errant POD.

Michael Schwern, for the initial patch to support --code in pod2text, the
patch for --verbose in pod2man, finding a problem with the handling of
X<>, and diagnosing a problem with the pod2text() backward compatibility
function..

Kurt Hirchert, for pointing out that the path mangling used to derive the
manual page name should only be done for section three manual pages, and
for suggesting a --name option for pod2man.

Mike Fry, for pointing out that the intuiting of the manual page name from
the directory path didn't deal with three-component version numbers,
serving as the impetus to rewrite that code to use File::Spec, and finding
another bug with the module name intuition on OS/2.

Craig A. Berry, for reporting that POSIX::Termios doesn't work on VMS and
providing the information necessary to add a workaround in
Pod::Text::Termcap, for lots of help with build system changes for the
merge with Perl core, and for pointing out a bug in the Pod::Man
devise_title logic that may cause it to look past the end of the path
array and produce Perl warnings.

Autrijus Tang, for finding a bug in error reporting in Pod::Text and
providing a couple of test cases that became the beginning of the error
test suite.

Marcus Shawcroft, for suggesting that guesswork not be applied to the
NAME section since that text is frequently pulled out by tools like
catman that don't understand *roff.

Hugo van der Sanden, for reporting that the anti-quoting regexes thought
that a period was a number.

Martin Quinson, for finding a bug in the handling of =item 0.

Allison Randal, for taking over maintainership of Pod::Simple and
providing a fix for reusing the same formatting object for multiple
pages.

Sergey Skvortsov, for a patch for compatibility with Perl 5.005.

Yitzchak Scott-Thoennes, for diagnosing and providing patches for a few
incompatibilities with the Pod::Simple calling syntax, pointing out that
Pod::Simple didn't provide parse_from_filehandle, and pointing out the
initial hash of options that parse_from_file and parse_from_filehandle
accepted with Pod::Parser.

Ron Savage, for pointing out a problematic regular expression construct in
Pod::Text::Termcap and Pod::Text::Color that broke in older versions of
Perl.

Steve Peters, for ongoing work integrating into Perl core and reporting
problems that crop up when that is done.

Jerry D. Hedden, for finding a test suite problem on Windows with
Pod::Simple 3.04.

Brendan O'Dea, for the initial patch to escape apostrophes in C<> and
verbatim text so that they won't be converted to Unicode single quotes and
the preamble magic to work with non-groff formatters.

Kevin Ryde, for diagnosing and providing a patch for the =head2 problem
with some *roff implementations "looking through" the font escapes at the
beginning of a line and still seeing *roff metacharacters, and for finding
and fixing an issue with X<> formatting codes containing newlines.

Steve Peters, for finding a problem with font settings in headings with
multiple C<> formatting codes.

H. Merijn Brand and Juerd Waalboer, for explaining the Unicode test suite
failures, PERL_UNICODE support, and the correct way to handle Unicode
input and output in Perl.  This resolved several confusions, including a
bad assumption about how non-breaking spaces should be handled.

Niko Tyni, for lots of helpful bug reports and testing in combination with
the Perl packages in Debian, for the proposal and implementation of
POD_MAN_DATE and SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH to support reproducible builds, and for
Pod::Man graceful fallback from a missing Encode module.

Jerry D. Hedden, for spelling fixes and pointing out differences in
aspell's dictionary on different systems.

Steve Hay, for a test suite bug fix on Windows.

Renee Baecker, for a patch to fix indentation of verbatim paragraphs that
contain lines with only whitespace.

John E. Malmberg, for pointing out problems with the test suite leaving
versions of temporary files behind on VMS.

David Hull, for pointing out the problem with choosing whether an item tag
will fit in the margin of the paragraph in Pod::Text subclasses that add
zero-length formatting codes and providing a patch to fix the problem.

Bjarni Ingi Gislason, for help in suppressing groff warnings from
undefined strings and numeric registers.

James E. Keenan, for reporting an issue with formatting L<> links
containing only URLs when the URL receives some formatting (such as
escaping of hyphens), for analysis of other bugs, for analysis and an
initial fix for build problems with autodie inside Perl core, and for
finding a problem with the realclean target.

Brian Gottreu, for fixing excessively long lines across all of the Perl
core documentation, including perlpodstyle.

Andreas Koenig, for discovering an error in handling otherwise empty
documents that have POD syntax errors and a POD ERRORS section.

Dagfinn Ilmari Manns√•ker, for multiple performance optimizations after
profiling all of the modules in Perl core.

Peter Rabbitson, for lots of assistance in getting the right build
configuration for a dual-life module included in Perl core, including
correct installation with old versions of Perl.

Dave Mitchell, for a bug fix for warnings when determining the manual page
title of a simple module and for how best to suppress Encode warnings
during Perl core builds.

Guillem Jover, for the formatting change for manual page references and
function names to match the Linux manual page standard, reporting a
diagnostic bug when pod2man or pod2text gets empty input on standard
input, and reporting a groff 1.23.0 regression with ragged-right
justification.

Zefram, for analyzing and fixing a problem with the UTF-8 layer detection
code in Pod::Man.

eponymous alias, for finding a bug in honoring the width option in
Pod::Text::Termcap and a bug in the Pod::Text sentence option
documentation.

Olly Betts, for fixing errors=none behavior to fully suppress the POD
errata section, even with unusual errors that still trigger with no
whining set.

Paul Evans, for finding a long-standing bug in the troff accent mark
definition for an acute accent.  This error appears to have existed since
the first version of Pod::Man.

zynldyx, for a detailed analysis of the problems with line-breaking
Japanese and Chinese text and a suggested fix, which led to the language
option to Pod::Man.

Yu, for an analysis of problems with inconsistent sentence spacing in
Pod::Man output and a discussion of possible fixes.  I haven't adopted the
suggested solution, but the discussion shed important light on a corner of
nroff behavior that I had not previously understood and led to some
guidance in the Pod::Man documentation.

raforg, for reporting that --quotes=none did not correctly suppress quotes
in the NAME section of a manual page.

Richard Franks, for a bug report that surrounding an L<> tag with S<>
failed to convert the internal spaces to non-breaking.

Julien √âLIE, for catching a long-standing bug where bold and italics
continued farther than they should in Pod::Man output if they were
combined with C<> and fixed-width fonts, and for finding a subtle spacing
bug with nested =items without bodies.

G. Branden Robinson, for his assistance in understanding *roff syntax,
analysis of groff justification and hyphenation changes, collaboration on
finding an approach to set a default for hyphenation and justification
without overriding user preferences, and his general helpfulness with all
things related to groff.

youpong, for reporting a double-encoding bug with a :utf8 output layer.

Graham Knop, for fixing a tricky bug in detecting output PerlIO UTF-8
layers.

Jim Avera, for finding a bug in wrapping in Pod::Text subclasses when S<>
is used in combination with a UTF-8 input encoding.
